## Week 3 Reflection

In the paper about 'Design as Exploration', I agree with the research questions emphasizing "enlightened trial and error" at the core of design in terms of making a tool for supporting design activities. Design creativity usually begins with an ambiguous idea that requests much time and effort to fail in finding a concrete, feasible direction at the beginning. If a tool for realizing the idea can give possible or alternative solutions quickly and efficiently, it would be helpful for designers. The concept of *Juxtapose* that allows designers to create and interact with multiple program alternatives in parallel is so impressive in this regard. Automatically generating and exposing a parameter control interface based on code is a unique approach to helping efficient improvisation otherwise needs to change source code directly. Although "the assumption that interaction designers create multiple alternatives of a common code document, where individual alternatives only differ in parameter settings and small sections of code" requires the designers to have more specific interaction structures of paths before writing code, "exploring options within one particular solution strategy" could make them focus on finding possible variations of outputs in the exploration stage of design processes. It also reminds me of Bret Victor's [*Ladder of Abstraction*](http://worrydream.com/LadderOfAbstraction/) in terms of pre-rendered visual results of possible parameter combinations or values.

The basic strategy of Design Gallery to extract a subset with optimal coverage from the set of all possible graphics is more of generative and algorithm-based approach. Designers could benefit from the DG approach when they have no specific idea of visual outputs or interaction structures. But I think it requests more jobs to be done even before starting an actual designing work, which could be more challenging for some of the designers. A possibility of variations could be limited by an algorithm itself. In *A.I. Aesthetics,* Lev Manovich points out that A.I. can support the aesthetic choices of end-users, e.g., photo filters in smartphones' photo apps, but it could also mean the aesthetic possibility is limited by the range that is given by A.I.