## Week 4 Reflection

Marius Watz's Closed Systems: Generative art and Software Abstraction

In his article, it is essential to understand the definition of generative systems and art and the difference between generative art and other forms of art. Here, generativity is used as a strategy to construct a complex structure and evoke emergent aesthetics. The capability of generativity in computational processes has been expanding with the advance of computing technology. This change also has enabled artists to push themselves to explore their ideas with generative systems otherwise are hard to even think about.

Helena Sarin's Playing a Game of GANStruction

I like her quote from twitter feeds, 'DaVinci used to grind his own pigments; contemporary artists such as @glagolista craft their own neural networks'. Generative A.I. techniques like GAN give artists an opportunity to create artifacts in a fully different way compared to the time in which artists should involve in all procedures in creating an algorithm that generates visuals. Now, the process with GAN emphasizes on what training data set the artist will use or how to train a model to generate aesthetically satisfying but perceptually interesting. But, it is still controversial how we will evaluate the novelty and originality of outcomes from the model. As the use of generative neural networks for creative activities is more accessible even for artists with no or novice level knowledge about machine learning, without a unique philosophical purpose or unique dataset, the artworks generated by these artists could be just replication of each other. It seems like a matter of choice whether you will put your labor and time in creating artworks itself or in first creating a machine helper who well understands your intention, style, or aesthetic taste then later delegating an actual creation process to the machine and justing evaluating and selecting satisfying ones from the results.

Machine Learning Art: An Interview with Memo Akten

In terms of the easy use of ML techniques for artists, I agree with Memo Akten's perspective that we need to use technology to see things differently. A machine trained with specific input data can only see the world through the context of the data set and the way we train a model. Without deep understating this nature of the 'biased' machine model, it is wasteful to use the model. Meme's description of the spectrum of the use of ML is worth knowing and finding oneself's position in the spectrum. 

Che-Wie Wang on The new role of the designer in generative design

As we can see how [Adobe Sensei](https://www.adobe.com/sensei.html) is trying to expand the work process of visual designers with A.I., designers' role and working process would be different in the near future. It means the designers should learn not only visual design principles but also the knowledge about how ML works or at least how we can exploit the capability ML can provide.