## Week 7 Reflection

In 2010, I had a chance to teach children programming with Scratch. It was the first time for them to learn programming. Thanks to the concept of Lego-like building blocks, students could quite well understand how they can play with Scratch although sometimes they had difficulty in creating interaction between sprites like bouncing balls, which requires a higher level of the abstract and mathematical thinking compared to an inference that is needed for geometrical movements. On a final day, we had an exhibition in a small gallery representing the results students made. In recalling this experience at the time, I thought Scratch is a good tool for learning how to do programming and understanding a way of computational thinking for not only for young children even for adults who have never experienced programming, compared to the time when I learned GW-Basic as my first programing language at age of 10.

For designers or programmers who want to make programming-based creation tools, it is worth knowing Resnick and Silverman's 10 design principles. Especially, I think it is very important to not only lower the barriers for novices at the beginning (low floor) but also have room for expanding the possible use scenarios of tools (wide walls). This would also be related to the author's ideas that design tools need to "support many paths and styles", ultimately enabling the user to explore "powerful ideas on their ways" with the tools as "microworlds".

From my experience, I could not agree more with the ideas that tool creators have to make things they would enjoy to use themselves and iteration with prototypes in a tool creation process is very important to gradually improve a "beta" product.

I think the main goals and philosophy behind Dynamic Brushes are also well aligned with some of these design principles. Observing the practice of the artists not just asking what they want is very insightful in making DB feasible and useful. I also agree with Levin's opinion that artists are actually tool makers by revealing invisible/unmet needs while exploring and experimenting with existing tools. One question I had while reading the paper is that if text-based programming artists use DB, how they would feel/think about it.

I really enjoyed reading Jacob's paper because of not only the idea the paper unfolds but also many references to the works/ideas of figures in media arts that I really admire and like, such as Golan Levin, Casey Reas, Zach Lieberman, and Bret Victor. When I found the video of his presentation, "Inventing on Principle", I became a big fan of Bret Victor after watching it. As I began with text-based programming languages and environments, I have witnessed how text programming languages have evolved for supporting programming practices, for example, auto-complete feature, visual elements programming frameworks like Visual Studio with Windows MFC or Java Applet, and IDEs with interface builders like Xcode or Eclipse. But for me, Victor's philosophy was way beyond the past attempts and the most innovative way to support programming practices. His article well explains his philosophy and design principles that would be a must-read for creators who work with programming languages or create new tools for programming. It will definitely expand our thoughts about how programming languages or environments should be evolved. 